README.md, before:

moveIt_moveIt.vim
=================

necessity
---------

This plugin arose out of my dissatisfaction with moving lines of code around in Vim. This task was made especially annoying when using rnu (relativelinenumber), an option which, in all other respects, is absolutely awesome. My remedy for this was to create a "dual-layered" operator, an operator which takes two motions. One motion to define the code block which is to be moved, the second to describe the movement itself.

As I used this plugin I occasionally needed similar functionality, but with a copy action instead of a move. That led to the development of the second half of this plugin, which now offers analogous copy operators for each of the moves.

mappings
------------

### move ###
* `Mf` moves lines forwards (down), moved lines are placed on a new line BELOW the line that the second movement ends on.
* `Mr` moves lines backwards (up), moved lines are placed on a new line ABOVE the line that the second movement ends on.
* `Mff` grabs the current line, 'skips' the first motion and waits for the second motion to define where to move the current line. Synonym for `0v$Mf`.
* `Mrr` is the same, but for backwards motions.

### copy ###
* `Md` copies lines forwards.
* `Me` copies lines backwards.
* `Mdd` copies current line forwards.
* `Mee` copies current line backwards.

syntax
------

(Mf|Mb) + (motion|text-object|operator-pending etc) + motion

(Mff|Mbb) + motion

visually-selected-text + (Mf|Mb) + motion

examples
--------

To move the first three lines in the following example below the last line (if the cursor is currently somewhere on "line 1") type `Mf2j4j`:

	line 1
	line 2
	line 3

	line 5

After this sequence, the lines become:

	line 5
	line 1
	line 2
	line 3

To do the inverse, with cursor on "line 1", type `Mr2j2k`. After this sequence the lines will revert back to their original positions:

	line 1
	line 2
	line 3

	line 5

To move text in parentheses down two lines (supposing the cursor is within the parentheses), type `Mfi(j`:

    print("hello world")

becomes:

    print()

    "hello world"

*Note* that the initial, "selection" motion can be character-wise or line-wise (or visually-selected text), but the second motion (to define the actual movement) is always line-wise. This means that the moved text will always be placed on a new line, there's no way to move text left or right within a target line. This may change in a later release, but I haven't had a need for it yet. 

installation - (pathogen)
-------------------------

### *nix ###

	cd ~/.vim/bundle
	git clone git://github.com/jonprairie/moveIt_moveIt.git

### windows ###
where $HOME is the vim home directory:

	cd $HOME/vimfiles/bundle
	git clone git://github.com/jonprairie/moveIt_moveIt.git

license
-------
copyright (c) Jonathan Prairie. Distributed under Vim's license.

Commit message:

add direction-detection in operator, so separate mappings for forwards and backwards moving/copying is no longer needed.

README.md, after:

moveIt_moveIt.vim
=================
***re-work the key sequences required to move/copy blocks of code***
- - - -

necessity
---------

I don't really care for the standard pattern that goes something like: d + motion + motion + P. I especially do not like that the initial delete operation re-sequences the line-numbers, making the second motion slightly more difficult. Additionally, on a conceptual level, I do not think of the operation as "delete", "jump", "paste", I think of it as one atomic operation, "move".

So this plugin uses a more mnemonic (for me at least) sequence: m + motion + motion. The first motion defines the block of code to be moved, delimited by the line the cursor was originally on and the line the motion would have brought the cursor to, inclusive, provided that the motion is a line motion. If the motion is, instead, a char motion, then the text to be moved is that which is delimited by the cursor and the position where the cursor would have ended up after the motion.

The second motion defines where the block of code will be moved to. If this motion moves 'up' in the buffer, then the code will be moved to a new line above the targeted line. Otherwise, if the motion moves 'down', the code will be moved to a new line below the targeted line. The second motion must move outside the block of text defined with the first motion.

***Note*** There is a second half to this plugin which offers an analogous copy operation initiated by the key sequence mc.

mappings
------------

### move ###
* `m` - move lines, waits for two separate motions, one to delimit the code to move, the second to define the location of the move.
* `mm` move current line, waits for a single motion that defines where to move the current line.

***Note*** that the "marking" functionality of `m` is re-mapped to `M`. You can flip these mappings, so `M` is used in the moveIt_moveIt commands and `m` remains the mark command, by setting `g:moveIt_moveIt_alt_mappings=1`.

### copy ###
* `mc` copy lines, waits for two separate motions, one to delimit the code to copy, the second to define the location to copy to.
* `mcc` copy current line, waits for a single motion that defines where to copy the current line.

syntax
------

### move/copy lines ###
`( m | mc ) + ( motion | text-object | operator-pending etc ) + motion`

### move/copy current line ###
`( mm | mcc ) + motion`

### move/copy visually-selected text ###
`visually-selected-text + ( m | mc ) + motion`

examples
--------

To move the first three lines in the following example below the last line (if the cursor is currently somewhere on "line 1") type `m2j4j`:

	line 1
	line 2
	line 3

	line 5

After this sequence, the lines become:

	line 5
	line 1
	line 2
	line 3

To do the inverse, with cursor on "line 1", type `m2j2k`. After this sequence the lines will revert back to their original positions:

	line 1
	line 2
	line 3

	line 5

To move text in parentheses down two lines (supposing the cursor is within the parentheses), type `mi(j`:

    print("hello world")

becomes:

    print()

    "hello world"

***Note*** that the initial, "selection" motion can be character-wise or line-wise (or visually-selected text), but the second motion (to define the actual movement) is always line-wise. This means that the moved text will always be placed on a new line, there's no way to move text laterally within a target line. This may change in a later release but I haven't had a need for it yet. 

installation - (pathogen)
-------------------------

### *nix ###

	cd ~/.vim/bundle
	git clone git://github.com/jonprairie/moveIt_moveIt.git

### windows ###
where $HOME is the vim home directory:

	cd $HOME/vimfiles/bundle
	git clone git://github.com/jonprairie/moveIt_moveIt.git

license
-------
copyright (c) Jonathan Prairie. Distributed under Vim's license.
